src/models/gaze17/README.md, before:

# Gazelle (gaze17)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Gazelle](./img/gaze17.webp)

The System76 Gazelle is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Alder Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-127000H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/132228/intel-core-i712700h-processor-24m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM670](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/187451/intel-hm670-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - Macronix MX25L25673G flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - Dedicated GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060
            - TGP: 60W
    - Integrated GPU:
        - Intel Iris Xe Graphics 
    - eDP display:
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: AUO B173HAN04.9 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.2
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
        - Realtek [RTL8111H](https://www.realtek.com/en/products/communications-network-ics/item/rtl8111h-s-cg)
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 180W DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: LiteOn PA-1181-76
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 54Wh 4-cell battery (model number NP50BAT-4-54)
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Dedicated microphone 3.5mm jack
    - USB-C DisplayPort, HDMI, Mini DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA)
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
        - Does not support DisplayPort over USB-C, USB-C charging (USB-PD), or Thunderbolt
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A
    - 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 17": 39.7cm x 26.213cm x 2.489cm, 2.5kg

Commit message:

feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

src/models/gaze17/README.md, after:

# Gazelle (gaze17)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Gazelle](./img/gaze17.webp)

The System76 Gazelle is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Alder Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-127000H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/132228/intel-core-i712700h-processor-24m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM670](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/187451/intel-hm670-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - Macronix MX25L25673G flash chip
        - WSON-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - Dedicated GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060
            - TGP: 60W
    - Integrated GPU:
        - Intel Iris Xe Graphics 
    - eDP display:
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: AUO B173HAN04.9 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.2
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
        - Realtek [RTL8111H](https://www.realtek.com/en/products/communications-network-ics/item/rtl8111h-s-cg)
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 180W DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: LiteOn PA-1181-76
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 54Wh 4-cell battery (model number NP50BAT-4-54)
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Dedicated microphone 3.5mm jack
    - USB-C DisplayPort, HDMI, Mini DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA)
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
        - Does not support DisplayPort over USB-C, USB-C charging (USB-PD), or Thunderbolt
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A
    - 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 17": 39.7cm x 26.213cm x 2.489cm, 2.5kg
