src/models/addw2/README.md, before:

# Adder WS (addw2)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Adder WS](./img/addw2.png)

The System76 Adder WS is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 10th Generation (Comet Lake) CPUs
        - [Core i7-10875H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/202329/intel-core-i7-10875h-processor-16m-cache-up-to-5-10-ghz.html)
- BIOS
    - MX25L12872F flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open) or non-open firmware
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec) or or non-open EC firmware
- Graphics
    - GPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070 Super
    - eDP display: 15.6" 3840x2160@60Hz OLED
        - OLED panel: Samsung ATNA56WR06 (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64 (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 230W (19.5V, 11.8A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-230P1A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C13
    - 62Wh 6-cell Lithium-Ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF (optical) 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III) SSD-1
    - M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3) SSD-2
    - 2.5" (7.0mm) SATA III
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
      - DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
    - 3x USB 3.0 (3.2 Gen 1) Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 35.890cm x 25.806cm x 2.997cm, 2.5kg

Commit message:

Add oryp9, add BIOS chip form factors (#140)
* oryp9: Begin repairs page

* fix (oryp9/repairs): Correct numbering

* fix (oryp9): Add third disclaimer about liquid metal

* oryp9 (repairs, external overview):
- Add remaining repairs photos
- Add external overview

* oryp9: Internal overview, specs

* oryp9: Update LCD panel model numbers

* oryp9: Finish specs

* oryp9: Internal overview photos

* oryp9 (repairs): Proofreading

* feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

* oryp9 (repairs): Add slot numbers to photo

src/models/addw2/README.md, after:

# Adder WS (addw2)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Adder WS](./img/addw2.png)

The System76 Adder WS is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 10th Generation (Comet Lake) CPUs
        - [Core i7-10875H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/202329/intel-core-i7-10875h-processor-16m-cache-up-to-5-10-ghz.html)
- BIOS
    - MX25L12872F flash chip
        - SOIC-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open) or non-open firmware
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec) or non-open EC firmware
- Graphics
    - GPU: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2070 Super
    - eDP display: 15.6" 3840x2160@60Hz OLED
        - OLED panel: Samsung ATNA56WR06 (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64 (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 230W (19.5V, 11.8A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-230P1A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C13
    - 62Wh 6-cell Lithium-Ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF (optical) 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III) SSD-1
    - M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3) SSD-2
    - 2.5" (7.0mm) SATA III
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
      - DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
    - 3x USB 3.0 (3.2 Gen 1) Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 35.890cm x 25.806cm x 2.997cm, 2.5kg
