src/models/addw2/repairs.md, before:

# Adder WS (Parts & Repairs)

Many components in your Adder WS can be upgraded or replaced as necessary. Follow these step-by-step guides for instructions:

- [Removing the battery](#removing-the-battery)
- [Removing the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard)
- [Removing the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover)
- [Replacing the RAM](#replacing-the-ram)
- [Replacing an M.2/NVMe SSD](#replacing-an-m2nvme-ssd)
- [Replacing a 2.5" storage drive](#replacing-a-25-storage-drive)
- [Replacing the WiFi/Bluetooth module](#replacing-the-wireless-card)
- [Replacing the CMOS battery](#replacing-the-cmos-battery)
- [Replacing the fans/heatsink/thermal paste](#replacing-the-cooling-system)

## Removing the battery:

The battery provides primary power whenever the system is unplugged.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 1 minute  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the battery:

1. Remove the two battery screws, highlighted green below.

![Battery screws](./img/battery-screws.jpg)

2. Lift the battery out of the chassis.

## Removing the keyboard:

The keyboard (and built-in keyboard backlight) can be replaced using the instructions below.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 5 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the keyboard:

1. Remove the two keyboard screws.

![Keyboard screws](./img/keyboard-screws.jpg)

2. Open the lid slightly and place the machine on its side.
3. Push the screwdriver into the keyboard push point (highlighted red above) until the keyboard pops out.

![Keyboard push point](./img/keyboard-push-point.jpg)

4. Set the machine upright and pull the keyboard out of the top case, starting from the top and working toward the bottom.
5. Once freed, lift the bottom of the keyboard to see the ribbon cables. The larger ribbon cable is for the keyboard, while the smaller ribbon cable is for the keyboard backlight.
    - If you are not replacing the keyboard, the keyboard can be flipped over onto the touchpad without disconnecting the ribbon cables.

![Keyboard ribbons](./img/keyboard-ribbons.jpg)

6. Flip the black latches away from the white connectors to free the ribbon cables.
7. Pull the ribbon cables out of the connectors.
8. Remove the keyboard and replace it with the new one.
9. Carefully slide both ribbon cables into their connectors.
10. Flip the black latches back into place to secure the ribbon cables.
11. Place the keyboard back into position, starting with the tabs on the bottom edge.
12. Secure the rest of the keyboard by pressing down on each of its edges.
13. Turn the machine lid-side down again and replace the two keyboard screws.

## Removing the bottom cover:

Removing the cover is required to access most internal components. Prior to removing the cover, ensure the AC power is unplugged and all peripherals (including SD cards and USB drives) are unplugged or removed from the system.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 7 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the bottom cover:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery) and [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard).
2. Remove the two under-keyboard screws holding the bottom panel in place from the top.

![Under-keyboard screws](./img/under-keyboard-screws.jpg)

3. Remove the remaining 10 bottom panel screws.

![Bottom panel screws](./img/bottom-panel-screws.jpg)

4. Pull the bottom panel off, starting from the hinges and vents in the back.

## Replacing the RAM:

The Adder WS 2 supports up to 64GB (2x32GB) of DDR4 SO-DIMMs running at 3200MHz. If you've purchased new RAM, need to replace your RAM, or are reseating your RAM, follow these steps.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 10 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the RAM:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Press the small tabs on both sides of the RAM simultaneously. The RAM should spring up to an angle.

![RAM slots](./img/ram-slots.jpg)

3. Remove the RAM from the slot.
4. Insert the new RAM (or reseat the existing RAM) by placing it in the keyed slot and pressing down until it clicks into place.

## Replacing an M.2/NVMe SSD:

This model supports two M.2 SSDs. Both slots are size 2280. SSD-1 supports PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III, while SSD-2 supports only PCIe NVMe Gen 3.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 10 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the M.2 drive:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Unscrew the retainer screw opposite the M.2 slot.

![M.2 slot](./img/m2-slots.jpg)

_SSD-1 is on the left (closest to the battery slot), while SSD-2 is on the right (closest to the 2.5" drive slot.)_

3. Remove the existing M.2 drive by pulling it out of the slot.
4. Insert the new M.2 drive into the slot and hold it in place.
5. Replace the retainer screw.

## Replacing a 2.5" storage drive:

This model supports one 2.5" (7mm height) SATA III SSD or hard drive.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 12 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Unscrew the single screw holding the 2.5" drive bracket into the case.

![2.5" drive bracket screw](./img/25-bracket-screw.jpg)

3. Slightly lift the loose end of the 2.5" drive and slide it out of the SATA port.

![2.5" drive removal](./img/25-drive-removal.jpg)

4. Unscrew the two screws holding the 2.5" drive into the drive bracket (one on either side.)

![2.5" drive side screw](./img/25-side-screw.jpg)

5. Insert the new 2.5" drive into the drive bracket and replace the two side screws.
6. Plug the 2.5" drive into the SATA port and set the drive into the case.
7. Screw the drive bracket back into the case.

## Replacing the wireless card:

Your Adder WS's WiFi and Bluetooth are both handled by the same module. It is a standard M.2 2230 slot with PCIe and USB interfaces (A Key).

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 12 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Medium <span style="color:orange;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the WiFi/Bluetooth module:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Locate the wireless module. Remove any clear tape that is securing the wires.

![Wireless card](./img/wireless-card.jpg)

3. Gently remove the two antennas (highlighted red above) by pulling them up and away from the wireless card.
4. Remove the retaining screw opposite the M.2 slot, highlighted yellow above.
5. The wireless card will pop up at an angle. Remove the card from the M.2 slot.
6. Insert the new wireless card into the M.2 slot at an angle.
7. Replace the retaining screw.
8. Attach the two antennas by aligning the circular fittings and pressing onto the wireless card. The connectors will snap into place.
    - _Use caution when attaching the connectors; the pins can bend, break, or snap._

## Replacing the CMOS battery:

The CMOS battery supplies power to the system's CMOS chip. UEFI settings and the computer's hardware clock are stored on the CMOS. If your system doesn't boot, you can reset the CMOS to force a low-level hardware reset. If your clock is constantly resetting, it's likely your CMOS battery needs to be replaced.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver    
**Time estimate:** 15 minutes    
**Difficulty:** Medium <span style="color:orange;">●</span>

### Steps to replace the CMOS battery:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard).

![CMOS battery](./img/cmos-battery.jpg)

2. Pick the CMOS battery up from the open side of the battery slot (on the right).
3. To clear the CMOS, [remove the main battery](#removing-the-battery), open the lid of the machine, and hold down the power button for at least 15 seconds to discharge any residual energy in the system.
4. Replace the CMOS battery, keyboard, and main battery.
5. Power up the machine. The system may power itself off and on after initial boot; this is normal behavior when the CMOS has been reset.

## Replacing the cooling system:

The Adder WS 2 has a single heatsink with two attached fans. The entire cooling assembly should be replaced together (fans cannot be removed individually.)

If a fan becomes noisy and cleaning it out doesn't fix the issue, you may need a new fan. [Contact Support](https://support.system76.com/) to start a warranty claim or parts purchase.

Depending on your climate and the age of the machine, it may be necessary to apply new thermal paste between the CPU/GPU and the heatsink. Thermal paste helps facilitate effective heat transfer between the CPU/GPU and the cooling equipment. These instructions can also be used in the unlikely event your heatsink needs replacing.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver, thermal paste  
**Time estimate:** 20 minutes  
**Difficulty:** High <span style="color:red;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the fans/heatsink/thermal paste:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Unplug the two white fan connectors, highlighted red below.

![Thermal screws and connectors](./img/thermal-system.jpg)

3. Remove the six heatsink screws and four fan screws in order, starting with #1, then #2, and so on until #10.
    - The heatsink screws are spring-loaded, and will not detatch from the heatsink when unscrewed.
4. Remove the heatsink from the system, being careful not to bend the heatsink pipes. It may take some pressure to break the seal of the thermal paste.
5. Using a paper towel, remove the existing thermal paste. You may also use a small amount of rubbing alcohol if the old paste is dried or difficult to remove.

![Thermal paste removal](./img/thermal-paste-removal.webp)

6. After cleaning the CPU, GPU, and heatsink, apply a small line of thermal paste directly onto the CPU/GPU chips.

![Thermal paste application](./img/thermal-paste-application.jpg)

7. Carefully replace the heatsink.
8. Replace the six heatsink screws and four fan screws in order, starting with #1, then #2, and so on until #10.
9. Plug in the two white fan connectors.

Commit message:

Add note about work surface & revise battery removal steps (#69)
* Add note about using a soft surface when placing any machine upside-down.
* Revise battery instructions for lemp9/lemp10/darp7.
* Fix spelling mistake.

Co-authored-by: Ben Flanagin <bflanagin@gmail.com>

src/models/addw2/repairs.md, after:

# Adder WS (Parts & Repairs)

Many components in your Adder WS can be upgraded or replaced as necessary. Follow these step-by-step guides for instructions:

- [Removing the battery](#removing-the-battery)
- [Removing the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard)
- [Removing the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover)
- [Replacing the RAM](#replacing-the-ram)
- [Replacing an M.2/NVMe SSD](#replacing-an-m2nvme-ssd)
- [Replacing a 2.5" storage drive](#replacing-a-25-storage-drive)
- [Replacing the WiFi/Bluetooth module](#replacing-the-wireless-card)
- [Replacing the CMOS battery](#replacing-the-cmos-battery)
- [Replacing the fans/heatsink/thermal paste](#replacing-the-cooling-system)

## Removing the battery:

The battery provides primary power whenever the system is unplugged.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 1 minute  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the battery:

1. Place the machine lid-side down.
    - Use a soft surface (such as a towel) to avoid scratches.
2. Remove the two battery screws, highlighted green below.

![Battery screws](./img/battery-screws.jpg)

3. Lift the battery out of the chassis.

## Removing the keyboard:

The keyboard (and built-in keyboard backlight) can be replaced using the instructions below.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 5 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the keyboard:

1. Place the machine lid-side down.
    - Use a soft surface (such as a towel) to avoid scratches.
2. Remove the two keyboard screws.

![Keyboard screws](./img/keyboard-screws.jpg)

3. Open the lid slightly and place the machine on its side.
4. Push the screwdriver into the keyboard push point (highlighted red above) until the keyboard pops out.

![Keyboard push point](./img/keyboard-push-point.jpg)

5. Set the machine upright and pull the keyboard out of the top case, starting from the top and working toward the bottom.
6. Once freed, lift the bottom of the keyboard to see the ribbon cables. The larger ribbon cable is for the keyboard, while the smaller ribbon cable is for the keyboard backlight.
    - If you are not replacing the keyboard, the keyboard can be flipped over onto the touchpad without disconnecting the ribbon cables.

![Keyboard ribbons](./img/keyboard-ribbons.jpg)

6. Flip the black latches away from the white connectors to free the ribbon cables.
7. Pull the ribbon cables out of the connectors.
8. Remove the keyboard and replace it with the new one.
9. Carefully slide both ribbon cables into their connectors.
10. Flip the black latches back into place to secure the ribbon cables.
11. Place the keyboard back into position, starting with the tabs on the bottom edge.
12. Secure the rest of the keyboard by pressing down on each of its edges.
13. Turn the machine lid-side down again and replace the two keyboard screws.

## Removing the bottom cover:

Removing the cover is required to access most internal components. Prior to removing the cover, ensure the AC power is unplugged and all peripherals (including SD cards and USB drives) are unplugged or removed from the system.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 7 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the bottom cover:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery) and [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard).
2. Remove the two under-keyboard screws holding the bottom panel in place from the top.

![Under-keyboard screws](./img/under-keyboard-screws.jpg)

3. Remove the remaining 10 bottom panel screws.

![Bottom panel screws](./img/bottom-panel-screws.jpg)

4. Pull the bottom panel off, starting from the hinges and vents in the back.

## Replacing the RAM:

The Adder WS 2 supports up to 64GB (2x32GB) of DDR4 SO-DIMMs running at 3200MHz. If you've purchased new RAM, need to replace your RAM, or are reseating your RAM, follow these steps.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 10 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the RAM:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Press the small tabs on both sides of the RAM simultaneously. The RAM should spring up to an angle.

![RAM slots](./img/ram-slots.jpg)

3. Remove the RAM from the slot.
4. Insert the new RAM (or reseat the existing RAM) by placing it in the keyed slot and pressing down until it clicks into place.

## Replacing an M.2/NVMe SSD:

This model supports two M.2 SSDs. Both slots are size 2280. SSD-1 supports PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III, while SSD-2 supports only PCIe NVMe Gen 3.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 10 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the M.2 drive:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Unscrew the retainer screw opposite the M.2 slot.

![M.2 slot](./img/m2-slots.jpg)

_SSD-1 is on the left (closest to the battery slot), while SSD-2 is on the right (closest to the 2.5" drive slot.)_

3. Remove the existing M.2 drive by pulling it out of the slot.
4. Insert the new M.2 drive into the slot and hold it in place.
5. Replace the retainer screw.

## Replacing a 2.5" storage drive:

This model supports one 2.5" (7mm height) SATA III SSD or hard drive.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 12 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Unscrew the single screw holding the 2.5" drive bracket into the case.

![2.5" drive bracket screw](./img/25-bracket-screw.jpg)

3. Slightly lift the loose end of the 2.5" drive and slide it out of the SATA port.

![2.5" drive removal](./img/25-drive-removal.jpg)

4. Unscrew the two screws holding the 2.5" drive into the drive bracket (one on either side.)

![2.5" drive side screw](./img/25-side-screw.jpg)

5. Insert the new 2.5" drive into the drive bracket and replace the two side screws.
6. Plug the 2.5" drive into the SATA port and set the drive into the case.
7. Screw the drive bracket back into the case.

## Replacing the wireless card:

Your Adder WS's WiFi and Bluetooth are both handled by the same module. It is a standard M.2 2230 slot with PCIe and USB interfaces (A Key).

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 12 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Medium <span style="color:orange;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the WiFi/Bluetooth module:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Locate the wireless module. Remove any clear tape that is securing the wires.

![Wireless card](./img/wireless-card.jpg)

3. Gently remove the two antennas (highlighted red above) by pulling them up and away from the wireless card.
4. Remove the retaining screw opposite the M.2 slot, highlighted yellow above.
5. The wireless card will pop up at an angle. Remove the card from the M.2 slot.
6. Insert the new wireless card into the M.2 slot at an angle.
7. Replace the retaining screw.
8. Attach the two antennas by aligning the circular fittings and pressing onto the wireless card. The connectors will snap into place.
    - _Use caution when attaching the connectors; the pins can bend, break, or snap._

## Replacing the CMOS battery:

The CMOS battery supplies power to the system's CMOS chip. UEFI settings and the computer's hardware clock are stored on the CMOS. If your system doesn't boot, you can reset the CMOS to force a low-level hardware reset. If your clock is constantly resetting, it's likely your CMOS battery needs to be replaced.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver    
**Time estimate:** 15 minutes    
**Difficulty:** Medium <span style="color:orange;">●</span>

### Steps to replace the CMOS battery:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard).

![CMOS battery](./img/cmos-battery.jpg)

2. Pick the CMOS battery up from the open side of the battery slot (on the right).
3. To clear the CMOS, [remove the main battery](#removing-the-battery), open the lid of the machine, and hold down the power button for at least 15 seconds to discharge any residual energy in the system.
4. Replace the CMOS battery, keyboard, and main battery.
5. Power up the machine. The system may power itself off and on after initial boot; this is normal behavior when the CMOS has been reset.

## Replacing the cooling system:

The Adder WS 2 has a single heatsink with two attached fans. The entire cooling assembly should be replaced together (fans cannot be removed individually.)

If a fan becomes noisy and cleaning it out doesn't fix the issue, you may need a new fan. [Contact Support](https://support.system76.com/) to start a warranty claim or parts purchase.

Depending on your climate and the age of the machine, it may be necessary to apply new thermal paste between the CPU/GPU and the heatsink. Thermal paste helps facilitate effective heat transfer between the CPU/GPU and the cooling equipment. These instructions can also be used in the unlikely event your heatsink needs replacing.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver, thermal paste  
**Time estimate:** 20 minutes  
**Difficulty:** High <span style="color:red;">●</span>  

### Steps to replace the fans/heatsink/thermal paste:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the battery](#removing-the-battery), [remove the keyboard](#removing-the-keyboard), and [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Unplug the two white fan connectors, highlighted red below.

![Thermal screws and connectors](./img/thermal-system.jpg)

3. Remove the six heatsink screws and four fan screws in order, starting with #1, then #2, and so on until #10.
    - The heatsink screws are spring-loaded, and will not detatch from the heatsink when unscrewed.
4. Remove the heatsink from the system, being careful not to bend the heatsink pipes. It may take some pressure to break the seal of the thermal paste.
5. Using a paper towel, remove the existing thermal paste. You may also use a small amount of rubbing alcohol if the old paste is dried or difficult to remove.

![Thermal paste removal](./img/thermal-paste-removal.webp)

6. After cleaning the CPU, GPU, and heatsink, apply a small line of thermal paste directly onto the CPU/GPU chips.

![Thermal paste application](./img/thermal-paste-application.jpg)

7. Carefully replace the heatsink.
8. Replace the six heatsink screws and four fan screws in order, starting with #1, then #2, and so on until #10.
9. Plug in the two white fan connectors.
