src/models/galp4/README.md, before:

# Galago Pro (galp4)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Galago Pro](./img/galp4.png)

The System76 Galago Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 10th Generation (Comet Lake-U) CPUs
        - [Core i7-10510U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/196449/intel-core-i7-10510u-processor-8m-cache-up-to-4-90-ghz.html)
        - [Core i5-10210U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/195436/intel-core-i5-10210u-processor-6m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT8587E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec) or non-open EC firmware
- Graphics
    - GPU: Intel UHD Graphics 620
    - eDP display: 14.1" 1920x1080@60Hz LCD
        - LCD panel: Innolux N140HCA-EAC (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.2
        - 1x DisplayPort over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64 (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 2666 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
        - or Intel Wireless-AC 9560
- Power
    - 40W (19V, 2.1A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 4mm (outer), 1.7mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A13-040A3A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 35.3Wh 3-cell Lithium-Ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - 3.5mm headphone jack
    - 3.5mm microphone jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe or SATA) SSD
    - 1x 2.5" 7mm SATA drive
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 2x USB 3.1 (Gen 1) Type-A
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
- Dimensions
    - 1.8cm x 33cm x 22.5cm, 1.3kg

Commit message:

Add oryp9, add BIOS chip form factors (#140)
* oryp9: Begin repairs page

* fix (oryp9/repairs): Correct numbering

* fix (oryp9): Add third disclaimer about liquid metal

* oryp9 (repairs, external overview):
- Add remaining repairs photos
- Add external overview

* oryp9: Internal overview, specs

* oryp9: Update LCD panel model numbers

* oryp9: Finish specs

* oryp9: Internal overview photos

* oryp9 (repairs): Proofreading

* feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

* oryp9 (repairs): Add slot numbers to photo

src/models/galp4/README.md, after:

# Galago Pro (galp4)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Galago Pro](./img/galp4.png)

The System76 Galago Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 10th Generation (Comet Lake-U) CPUs
        - [Core i7-10510U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/196449/intel-core-i7-10510u-processor-8m-cache-up-to-4-90-ghz.html)
        - [Core i5-10210U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/195436/intel-core-i5-10210u-processor-6m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip
        - SOIC-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT8587E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec) or non-open EC firmware
- Graphics
    - GPU: Intel UHD Graphics 620
    - eDP display: 14.1" 1920x1080@60Hz LCD
        - LCD panel: Innolux N140HCA-EAC (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.2
        - 1x DisplayPort over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64 (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 2666 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
        - or Intel Wireless-AC 9560
- Power
    - 40W (19V, 2.1A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 4mm (outer), 1.7mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A13-040A3A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 35.3Wh 3-cell Lithium-Ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - 3.5mm headphone jack
    - 3.5mm microphone jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe or SATA) SSD
    - 1x 2.5" 7mm SATA drive
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 2x USB 3.1 (Gen 1) Type-A
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
- Dimensions
    - 1.8cm x 33cm x 22.5cm, 1.3kg
