src/models/darp7/README.md, before:

# Darter Pro (darp7)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Darter Pro](./img/darp7.webp)

The System76 Darter Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 11th Generation (Tiger Lake) CPUs
        - [Core i7-1165G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208921/intel-core-i7-1165g7-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz-with-ipu.html)
        - [Core i5-1135G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208922/intel-core-i5-1135g7-processor-8m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz-with-ipu.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec) or non-open EC firmware
- Graphics
    - GPU: Intel Iris Xe Graphics
    - eDP display: 15.6" 1920x1080@60Hz LCD
        - LCD panel options:
            - AUO B156HAN02.5
            - BOE NV156FHM-N4H
            - or other equivalent
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 65W (19V, 3.42A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A18-065N3A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - USB-C charging compatible with 65W+ charger
    - 73Wh 4-cell Lithium-ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III)
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Supports USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 1x USB 3.2 (Gen 2) Type-C
    - 1x USB 3.2 (Gen 2) Type-A
    - 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 1.99cm x 35.7cm x 22.05cm, 1.74kg

Commit message:

Add oryp9, add BIOS chip form factors (#140)
* oryp9: Begin repairs page

* fix (oryp9/repairs): Correct numbering

* fix (oryp9): Add third disclaimer about liquid metal

* oryp9 (repairs, external overview):
- Add remaining repairs photos
- Add external overview

* oryp9: Internal overview, specs

* oryp9: Update LCD panel model numbers

* oryp9: Finish specs

* oryp9: Internal overview photos

* oryp9 (repairs): Proofreading

* feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

* oryp9 (repairs): Add slot numbers to photo

src/models/darp7/README.md, after:

# Darter Pro (darp7)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Darter Pro](./img/darp7.webp)

The System76 Darter Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 11th Generation (Tiger Lake) CPUs
        - [Core i7-1165G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208921/intel-core-i7-1165g7-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz-with-ipu.html)
        - [Core i5-1135G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208922/intel-core-i5-1135g7-processor-8m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz-with-ipu.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip
        - SOIC-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec) or non-open EC firmware
- Graphics
    - GPU: Intel Iris Xe Graphics
    - eDP display: 15.6" 1920x1080@60Hz LCD
        - LCD panel options:
            - AUO B156HAN02.5
            - BOE NV156FHM-N4H
            - or other equivalent
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 65W (19V, 3.42A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A18-065N3A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - USB-C charging compatible with 65W+ charger
    - 73Wh 4-cell Lithium-ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III)
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Supports USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 1x USB 3.2 (Gen 2) Type-C
    - 1x USB 3.2 (Gen 2) Type-A
    - 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 1.99cm x 35.7cm x 22.05cm, 1.74kg
