src/models/oryp8/README.md, before:

# Oryx Pro (oryp8)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Oryx Pro](./img/oryp8.webp)

The System76 Oryx Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Tiger Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-11800H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213803/intel-core-i7-11800h-processor-24m-cache-up-to-4-60-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM570](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213683/intel-hm570-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3070 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
    - eDP display options:
        - 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP156WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP173WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - 1x HDMI 2.1
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 180W (19.5V, 9.23A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Lite-On PA-1181-16
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 73Wh 3-cell battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF (optical) 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III)
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 3x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 35.75cm x 23.8cm x 1.98cm, 1.99kg
    - 17": 39.59cm x 26.495cm x 1.99cm, 2.3kg

Commit message:

Add oryp9, add BIOS chip form factors (#140)
* oryp9: Begin repairs page

* fix (oryp9/repairs): Correct numbering

* fix (oryp9): Add third disclaimer about liquid metal

* oryp9 (repairs, external overview):
- Add remaining repairs photos
- Add external overview

* oryp9: Internal overview, specs

* oryp9: Update LCD panel model numbers

* oryp9: Finish specs

* oryp9: Internal overview photos

* oryp9 (repairs): Proofreading

* feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

* oryp9 (repairs): Add slot numbers to photo

src/models/oryp8/README.md, after:

# Oryx Pro (oryp8)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Oryx Pro](./img/oryp8.webp)

The System76 Oryx Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Tiger Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-11800H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213803/intel-core-i7-11800h-processor-24m-cache-up-to-4-60-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM570](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213683/intel-hm570-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip
        - SOIC-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3070 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
    - eDP display options:
        - 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP156WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP173WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - 1x HDMI 2.1
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 180W (19.5V, 9.23A) DC-in port
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - Included AC adapter: Lite-On PA-1181-16
        - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 73Wh 3-cell battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF (optical) 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA III)
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 3x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 35.75cm x 23.8cm x 1.98cm, 1.99kg
    - 17": 39.59cm x 26.495cm x 1.99cm, 2.3kg
