src/models/gaze16/README.md, before:

# Gazelle (gaze16)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Gazelle](./img/gaze16.webp)

The System76 Gazelle is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Tiger Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-11800H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213803/intel-core-i7-11800h-processor-24m-cache-up-to-4-60-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM570](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213683/intel-hm570-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060
            - TGP: 60W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 Ti
            - TGP: 60W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050
            - TGP: 60W
    - eDP display options:
        - 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: AUO B156HAN08.4 (or equivalent)
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP173WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - RTX 3050 and 3050 Ti models:
            - 1x HDMI
            - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - RTX 3060 model:
            - 1x HDMI
            - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.2
            - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - RTX 3050 and 3050 Ti models:
        - 150W DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-150P2A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - RTX 3060 model:
        - 180W DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (innter)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-180P4A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 48.96Wh 4-cell battery (model number NH50BAT-4)
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Dedicated microphone 3.5mm jack
    - USB-C DisplayPort (3060 only), HDMI, Mini DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA)
    - 2.5" 7mm SATA drive bay
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C on RTX 3060 model only
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD) or Thunderbolt
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
    - 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 35.75cm x 23.8cm x 1.98cm, 1.99kg
    - 17": 39.59cm x 26.495cm x 1.99cm, 2.3kg

Commit message:

feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

src/models/gaze16/README.md, after:

# Gazelle (gaze16)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Gazelle](./img/gaze16.webp)

The System76 Gazelle is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Tiger Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-11800H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213803/intel-core-i7-11800h-processor-24m-cache-up-to-4-60-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM570](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/213683/intel-hm570-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip
        - SOIC-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060
            - TGP: 60W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 Ti
            - TGP: 60W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050
            - TGP: 60W
    - eDP display options:
        - 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: AUO B156HAN08.4 (or equivalent)
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP173WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - RTX 3050 and 3050 Ti models:
            - 1x HDMI
            - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - RTX 3060 model:
            - 1x HDMI
            - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.2
            - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - RTX 3050 and 3050 Ti models:
        - 150W DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-150P2A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - RTX 3060 model:
        - 180W DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (innter)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-180P4A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
    - 48.96Wh 4-cell battery (model number NH50BAT-4)
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Dedicated microphone 3.5mm jack
    - USB-C DisplayPort (3060 only), HDMI, Mini DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 3 or SATA)
    - 2.5" 7mm SATA drive bay
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C on RTX 3060 model only
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD) or Thunderbolt
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-A
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
    - 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 35.75cm x 23.8cm x 1.98cm, 1.99kg
    - 17": 39.59cm x 26.495cm x 1.99cm, 2.3kg
