src/models/galp5/README.md, before:

# Galago Pro (galp5)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Galago Pro](./img/galp5.png)

The System76 Galago Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 11th Generation (Tiger Lake-U) CPUs
        - [Core i7-1165G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208921/intel-core-i7-1165g7-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz-with-ipu.html)
        - [Core i5-1135G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208922/intel-core-i5-1135g7-processor-8m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz-with-ipu.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - Intel Iris Xe Graphics (Integrated graphics model)
        - NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 (Switchable graphics model)
        - NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 Ti (Switchable graphics model)
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 (Switchable graphics model)
    - eDP display: 14.1" 1920x1080@60Hz LCD
        - LCD panel: BOE NV140FHM-N62 (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64 (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - Intel-only model:
        - 65W (19V, 3.42A) DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A18-065N3A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
        - USB-C charging compatible with 65W+ charger
    - NVIDIA 1650/1650 Ti + Intel model:
        - 90W (19V, 4.74A) DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A16-090P1A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
        - USB-C charging compatible with 90W+ charger
    - NVIDIA 3050 + Intel model:
        - 120W (19V, 6.15A) DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: LiteOn PA-1121-26
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
        - USB-C charging compatible with 120W+ charger
    - 49Wh 4-cell Lithium-Ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - 3.5mm headphone/microphone combo jack
    - HDMI, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4) SSD
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 2x USB 3.2 (Gen 1) Type-A
    - 1x USB 3.2 (Gen 2) Type-C
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
- Dimensions
    - 32.49cm x 22.5cm x 1.75cm, 1.41kg

Commit message:

feat: List form factor of BIOS flash chip

src/models/galp5/README.md, after:

# Galago Pro (galp5)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Galago Pro](./img/galp5.png)

The System76 Galago Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 11th Generation (Tiger Lake-U) CPUs
        - [Core i7-1165G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208921/intel-core-i7-1165g7-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz-with-ipu.html)
        - [Core i5-1135G7](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208922/intel-core-i5-1135g7-processor-8m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz-with-ipu.html)
- BIOS
    - GD25B127D flash chip
        - SOIC-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - Intel Iris Xe Graphics (Integrated graphics model)
        - NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 (Switchable graphics model)
        - NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1650 Ti (Switchable graphics model)
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 (Switchable graphics model)
    - eDP display: 14.1" 1920x1080@60Hz LCD
        - LCD panel: BOE NV140FHM-N62 (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64 (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 3200 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - Intel-only model:
        - 65W (19V, 3.42A) DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A18-065N3A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
        - USB-C charging compatible with 65W+ charger
    - NVIDIA 1650/1650 Ti + Intel model:
        - 90W (19V, 4.74A) DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A16-090P1A
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
        - USB-C charging compatible with 90W+ charger
    - NVIDIA 3050 + Intel model:
        - 120W (19V, 6.15A) DC-in port
            - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
        - Included AC adapter: LiteOn PA-1121-26
            - AC power cord type: IEC C5
        - USB-C charging compatible with 120W+ charger
    - 49Wh 4-cell Lithium-Ion battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - 3.5mm headphone/microphone combo jack
    - HDMI, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe Gen 4) SSD
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 2x USB 3.2 (Gen 1) Type-A
    - 1x USB 3.2 (Gen 2) Type-C
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
- Dimensions
    - 32.49cm x 22.5cm x 1.75cm, 1.41kg
