src/models/thelio-major-r3/internal-overview.md, before:

# Thelio Mira (Internal Overview)

## Left side overview:

![Internal overview (left side)](./img/components-left.webp)

- CPU cooler & CPU are highlighted in red (located behind the CPU shroud)
- RAM slots are highlighted in green
- 2.5" SATA drive cage is highlighted in pink
- M.2 slots are highlighted in white (located underneath the GPU & heatsinks)
- GPU (in PCIe 4.0 x16 slot) is highlighted in yellow
- PCIe 4.0 x4 and x2 slots are highlighted in dark blue
- Power supply is highlighted in cyan
- Bottom case fan is highlighted in orange

## Right side overview:

![Internal overview (right side)](./img/components-right.webp)

- Thelio-IO access cutout is highlighted in green
- Power supply access cutout is highlighted in red

## Front side overview:

![Internal overview (front side)](./img/components-front.webp)

- Thelio-IO connector access cutout is highlighted in green

## Top overview:

![Internal overview (top)](./img/components-top.webp)

- 2.5" drive screws are highlighted in green
- CPU power connector is highlighted in red
    - Connects to power supply
- Motherboard CPU fan header is highlighted in yellow
    - Connects to Thelio-IO board
- Power button receptacle is highlighted in cyan
    - Connects to Thelio-IO board

See the [repairs page](./repairs.md) for detailed information about installing or replacing components.

Commit message:

thelio-major-r3: Add internal overview

src/models/thelio-major-r3/internal-overview.md, after:

# Thelio Major (Internal Overview)

## Left side overview:

![Internal overview (left side)](./img/components-left.webp)

- CPU cooler & CPU are highlighted in red (located behind the CPU shroud)
- RAM slots are highlighted in green (located behind the CPU shroud)
- 2.5" SATA drive cage (with cover removed) is highlighted in pink
- M.2 slots are highlighted in white (located underneath the GPU & heatsinks)
- GPU (in PCIe 5.0 x16 slot) is highlighted in yellow
- PCIe 4.0 x8 and 3.0 x2 slots are highlighted in navy
- Power supply is highlighted in cyan
- Case fans are highlighted in orange

## Right side overview:

![Internal overview (right side)](./img/components-right.webp)

- Thelio-IO access cutout is highlighted in green
- Power supply access cutout is highlighted in red

## Front side overview:

![Internal overview (front side)](./img/components-front.webp)

- Thelio-IO access cutout is highlighted in green

## Top overview:

![Internal overview (top)](./img/components-top.webp)

- 2.5" drive screws (with retainer ring removed) are highlighted in green
- CPU power connectors are highlighted in red
    - Connect to power supply
- Motherboard CPU fan header is highlighted in yellow
    - Connects to Thelio-IO board
- Power button receptacle is highlighted in cyan
    - Connects to Thelio-IO board

See the [repairs page](./repairs.md) for detailed information about installing or replacing components.
