src/models/lemp10/external-overview.md, before:

# Lemur Pro (External Overview)

## Left side overview:

![Left Ports](./img/ports-left.png)

## Right side overview:

![Right Ports](./img/ports-right.png)

## Front side overview:

![Front Ports](./img/ports-front.png)

## Back side overview:

![Back Ports](./img/ports-back.png)

## Speakers

The grilles for the built-in speakers are located on the bottom of the machine, angled outward.

![Bottom Ports](./img/ports-bottom.jpg)

## Keyboard Shortcuts

The Lemur Pro has the following actions available using the Fn and Function keys:

|Key                        |Shortcut|Action                              |
|---------------------------|--------|------------------------------------|
|![Fn-F1](./img/fn-f1.png)  |Fn+F1   |Toggle trackpad                     |
|![Fn-F2](./img/fn-f2.png)  |Fn+F2   |Toggle built-in LCD                 |
|![Fn-F3](./img/fn-f3.png)  |Fn+F3   |Mute                                |
|![Fn-F3](./img/fn-f4.png)  |Fn+F4   |Keyboard backlight toggle/brightness|
|![Fn-F5](./img/fn-f5.png)  |Fn+F5   |Volume down                         |
|![Fn-F6](./img/fn-f6.png)  |Fn+F6   |Volume up                           |
|![Fn-F7](./img/fn-f7.png)  |Fn+F7   |Toggle displays                     |
|![Fn-F8](./img/fn-f8.png)  |Fn+F8   |Screen brightness down              |
|![Fn-F9](./img/fn-f9.png)  |Fn+F9   |Screen brightness up                |
|![Fn-F10](./img/fn-f10.png)|Fn+F10  |Toggle webcam                       |
|![Fn-F11](./img/fn-f11.png)|Fn+F11  |Toggle airplane mode                |
|![Fn-F12](./img/fn-f12.png)|Fn+F12  |Suspend                             |

## LED indicators

There is an LED light next to the DC-in connector (charger port.) The color and pattern indicate:

- **Solid green:** Powered on and not suspended.
- **Flashing green:** Powered on and suspended.
- **Solid yellow:** Powered off and charging.
- **Off:** Powered off and not charging.

Commit message:

Add missing photo for speaker grilles.

src/models/lemp10/external-overview.md, after:

# Lemur Pro (External Overview)

## Left side overview:

![Left Ports](./img/ports-left.png)

## Right side overview:

![Right Ports](./img/ports-right.png)

## Front side overview:

![Front Ports](./img/ports-front.png)

## Back side overview:

![Back Ports](./img/ports-back.png)

## Speakers

The machine has two bottom-firing speakers near the front, angled outward.

![Bottom Ports](./img/ports-bottom.jpg)

## Keyboard Shortcuts

The Lemur Pro has the following actions available using the Fn and Function keys:

|Key                        |Shortcut|Action                              |
|---------------------------|--------|------------------------------------|
|![Fn-F1](./img/fn-f1.png)  |Fn+F1   |Toggle trackpad                     |
|![Fn-F2](./img/fn-f2.png)  |Fn+F2   |Toggle built-in LCD                 |
|![Fn-F3](./img/fn-f3.png)  |Fn+F3   |Mute                                |
|![Fn-F3](./img/fn-f4.png)  |Fn+F4   |Keyboard backlight toggle/brightness|
|![Fn-F5](./img/fn-f5.png)  |Fn+F5   |Volume down                         |
|![Fn-F6](./img/fn-f6.png)  |Fn+F6   |Volume up                           |
|![Fn-F7](./img/fn-f7.png)  |Fn+F7   |Toggle displays                     |
|![Fn-F8](./img/fn-f8.png)  |Fn+F8   |Screen brightness down              |
|![Fn-F9](./img/fn-f9.png)  |Fn+F9   |Screen brightness up                |
|![Fn-F10](./img/fn-f10.png)|Fn+F10  |Toggle webcam                       |
|![Fn-F11](./img/fn-f11.png)|Fn+F11  |Toggle airplane mode                |
|![Fn-F12](./img/fn-f12.png)|Fn+F12  |Suspend                             |

## LED indicators

There is an LED light next to the DC-in connector (charger port.) The color and pattern indicate:

- **Solid green:** Powered on and not suspended.
- **Flashing green:** Powered on and suspended.
- **Solid yellow:** Powered off and charging.
- **Off:** Powered off and not charging.
