src/models/oryp7/README.md, before:

# Oryx Pro (oryp7)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Oryx Pro](./img/oryp7.webp)

The System76 Oryx Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Comet Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-10870H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208018/intel-core-i7-10870h-processor-16m-cache-up-to-5-00-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM470](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/203697/intel-hm470-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - MX25L12873F flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3070 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060
            - TGP: 80W
    - eDP display options:
        - 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
        - 15.6" 3840x2160@60Hz OLED
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
        - 17.3" 3840x2160@60Hz LCD
    - External video output:
        - 1x HDMI 2.1
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 2933 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 180W (19.5V, 9.23A) AC adapter
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-180P4A
        - Included AC adapter uses C5 (Cloverleaf) power cord
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - 73Wh 3-cell battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF (optical) 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe or SATA)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe only)
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 3x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 35.75cm x 23.8cm x 1.98cm, 1.99kg
    - 17": 39.59cm x 26.495cm x 1.99cm, 2.3kg

Commit message:

Add LCD panel model numbers (#86)
* Add oryp7 LCD panels

* Add addw1 LCD panel

* Add addw2 LCD panel

* Add bonw14 LCD panels

* Add darp6 LCD panel

* Add darp7 LCD panel

* Add galp4 LCD panel

* Add galp5 LCD panel

* Add gaze15 LCD panel

* Add lemp9 LCD panel

* Add lemp10 LCD panel

* Add oryp6 LCD panels

* Add serw12 LCD panels

* pang10: Remove redundant word

* Typo fix

* Refer to OLED panels as OLED instead of LCD

Co-authored-by: leviport <levi@system76.com>

src/models/oryp7/README.md, after:

# Oryx Pro (oryp7)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Oryx Pro](./img/oryp7.webp)

The System76 Oryx Pro is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel Comet Lake CPUs
        - [Intel i7-10870H](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/208018/intel-core-i7-10870h-processor-16m-cache-up-to-5-00-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - [Intel HM470](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/203697/intel-hm470-chipset.html)
- BIOS
    - MX25L12873F flash chip running [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E running [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3070 (Max-Q)
            - TGP: 80W
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060
            - TGP: 80W
    - eDP display options:
        - 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP156WFG-SPB3 (or equivalent)
        - 15.6" 3840x2160@60Hz OLED
            - OLED panel: Samsung ATNA56WR06 (or equivalent)
        - 17.3" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
            - LCD panel: LG LP173WFG-SPB1 (or equivalent)
    - External video output:
        - 1x HDMI 2.1
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 1x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR4 SO-DIMMs @ 2933 MHz
- Networking
    - Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200/AX201
- Power
    - 180W (19.5V, 9.23A) AC adapter
        - Included AC adapter: Chicony A17-180P4A
        - Included AC adapter uses C5 (Cloverleaf) power cord
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - 73Wh 3-cell battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF (optical) 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe or SATA)
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe only)
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C
        - Does not support USB-C charging (USB-PD)
    - 3x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 35.75cm x 23.8cm x 1.98cm, 1.99kg
    - 17": 39.59cm x 26.495cm x 1.99cm, 2.3kg
