src/models/serw13/README.md, before:

# Serval WS (serw13)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Serval WS](./img/serw13.webp)

The System76 Serval WS is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 13th Generation (Raptor Lake) CPUs
        - [Core i9-13900HX](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/232171/intel-core-i913900hx-processor-36m-cache-up-to-5-40-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - Intel HM770
- BIOS
    - GigaDevice GD25B256EYIGR
        - WSON-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4070
    - eDP display: 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
        - LCD panel: BOE NV156FHM-NY8 (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 2x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR5 SO-DIMMs @ 5600 MHz
- Networking
    - 2.5-Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6E AX211
- Power
    - 280W (20V, 14A) DC-in port
        - DC-in port accepts rectangular (not barrel) connector
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A18-280P1A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C13
    - 80Wh 6-cell battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 2x PCIe NVMe Gen 4
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports USB-PD (charging) and DisplayPort over USB-C.
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C.
    - 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 2.49cm x 35.8cm x 24.0cm, 2.4kg
    - 17": 2.49cm x 39.6cm x 26.2cm, 2.8kg

Commit message:

serw13 (specs): Note USB-PD is only active when CPU is off

src/models/serw13/README.md, after:

# Serval WS (serw13)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Serval WS](./img/serw13.webp)

The System76 Serval WS is a laptop with the following specifications:

- CPU
    - Supports Intel 13th Generation (Raptor Lake) CPUs
        - [Core i9-13900HX](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/232171/intel-core-i913900hx-processor-36m-cache-up-to-5-40-ghz.html)
- Chipset
    - Intel HM770
- BIOS
    - GigaDevice GD25B256EYIGR
        - WSON-8 form factor
    - Programmed with [System76 Open Firmware](https://github.com/system76/firmware-open)
- EC
    - ITE IT5570E
    - Programmed with [System76 EC](https://github.com/system76/ec)
- Graphics
    - GPU options:
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060
        - NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4070
    - eDP display: 15.6" 1920x1080@144Hz LCD
        - LCD panel: BOE NV156FHM-NY8 (or equivalent)
    - External video outputs:
        - 1x HDMI
        - 1x Mini DisplayPort 1.4
        - 2x DisplayPort 1.4 over USB-C
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) dual-channel DDR5 SO-DIMMs @ 5600 MHz
- Networking
    - 2.5-Gigabit Ethernet
    - M.2 PCIe/CNVi WiFi/Bluetooth
        - Intel Wi-Fi 6E AX211
- Power
    - 280W (20V, 14A) DC-in port
        - DC-in port accepts rectangular (not barrel) connector
    - Included AC adapter: Chicony A18-280P1A
        - AC power cord type: IEC C13
    - 80Wh 6-cell battery
- Sound
    - Internal speakers & microphone
    - Combined headphone & microphone 3.5mm jack
    - Combined microphone & S/PDIF 3.5mm jack
    - HDMI, Mini DisplayPort, USB-C DisplayPort audio
- Storage
    - 2x PCIe NVMe Gen 4
    - MicroSD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4
        - Supports USB-PD (charging) when the system is powered off or suspended.
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C.
    - 1x USB 3.2 Gen 2 Type-C
        - Supports DisplayPort over USB-C.
    - 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - 15": 2.49cm x 35.8cm x 24.0cm, 2.4kg
    - 17": 2.49cm x 39.6cm x 26.2cm, 2.8kg
