src/models/thelio-spark-b1-n2/internal-overview.md, before:

# Thelio Mira (Internal Overview)

## Left side overview:

### Chassis components:

![Internal overview (left side - chassis)](./img/internal-left-chassis.webp)

### Electronic components:

![Internal overview (left side - electronics)](./img/internal-left-electronics.webp)

- CPU heatsink is highlighted in yellow
- RAM slots are highlighted in green
- 2.5" SATA slots are highlighted in pink
- M.2 slots are highlighted in cyan
- GPU (in PCIe 4.0 x16 slot) is highlighted in red
- Wireless card (in PCIe 3.0 x16 slot) is highlighted in white
- Power supply is highlighted in maroon
- Bottom case fan is highlighted in orange

## Right side overview:

![Internal overview (right side)](./img/internal-right.webp)

- Thelio-IO access cutout is highlighted in green
- Power supply access cutout is highlighted in red

## Front side overview:

![Internal overview (front side)](./img/internal-front.webp)

- Thelio-IO connector access cutout is highlighted in green

## Top overview:

![Internal overview (top)](./img/internal-top.webp)

- 2.5" drive screws are highlighted in green
- CPU power connector is highlighted in red
    - Connects to power supply
- Motherboard CPU fan header is highlighted in yellow
    - Connects to Thelio-IO board
- Power button receptacle is highlighted in cyan
    - Connects to Thelio-IO board

See the [repairs page](./repairs.md) for detailed information about installing or replacing components.

Commit message:

thelio-spark-b1-n2: Add internal overview

src/models/thelio-spark-b1-n2/internal-overview.md, after:

# Thelio Mira (Internal Overview)

## Left side overview:

### Chassis components:

![Internal overview (left side - chassis)](./img/internal-left-chassis.webp)

- CPU duct is highlighted in red
- 2.5" drive cage is highlighted in pink
- Side brace is highlighted in green

### Electronic components:

![Internal overview (left side - electronics)](./img/internal-left-electronics.webp)

- CPU heatsink is highlighted in yellow
- RAM slots are highlighted in green
- 2.5" SATA slots are highlighted in pink
- M.2 slots are highlighted in cyan
- GPU (in PCIe 4.0 x16 slot) is highlighted in red
- Wireless card (in PCIe 3.0 x16 slot) is highlighted in white
- Power supply is highlighted in maroon
- Bottom case fan is highlighted in orange

## Right side overview:

![Internal overview (right side)](./img/internal-right.webp)

- Thelio Io connector access cutout is highlighted in green
- Power supply access cutout is highlighted in red

## Front side overview:

![Internal overview (front side)](./img/internal-front.webp)

- Thelio Io connector access cutout is highlighted in green
- Internal power button (on the Thelio Io board) is highlighted in cyan

## Top overview:

![Internal overview (top)](./img/internal-top.webp)

- CPU power connector is highlighted in red
    - Connects to power supply
- Motherboard CPU fan header is highlighted in yellow
    - Connects to Thelio Io board
- CPU fan splitter is highlighted in pink
    - Connects to Thelio Io board and CPU fans
- Top I/O board is highlighted in white
    - Connects to motherboard
- 2.5" drive screws are highlighted in green
- Power button receptacle is highlighted in cyan
    - Connects to Thelio Io board

See the [repairs page](./repairs.md) for detailed information about installing or replacing components.
