src/models/README.md, before:

# Models

System76 provides laptops, desktops and servers with Linux pre-installed.
This documentation includes the following System76 models:

## Current Models

- [Adder WS (addw2)](addw2/README.md)
- [Bonobo WS (bonw14)](bonw14/README.md)
- [Darter Pro (darp7)](darp7/README.md)
- [Galago Pro (galp5)](galp5/README.md)
- [Gazelle (gaze15)](gaze15/README.md)
- [Lemur Pro (lemp10)](lemp10/README.md)
- [Meerkat (meer5)](meer5/README.md)
- [Oryx Pro (oryp7)](oryp7/README.md)
- [Pangolin (pang10)](pang10/README.md)
- [Serval WS (serw12)](serw12/README.md)
- [Thelio Major B2 (thelio-major-b2)](thelio-major-b2/service-manual.md)
- [Thelio Massive (thelio-massive-b1.2)](thelio-massive-b1.2/README.md)
- [Thelio Mega (thelio-mega-r1.0)](thelio-mega-r1.0/README.md)
- [Thelio Mira (thelio-mira-r1.0)](thelio-mira-r1.0/README.md)

## Previous Models

- [Adder WS (addw1)](addw1/README.md)
- [Darter Pro (darp6)](darp6/README.md)
- [Galago Pro (galp4)](galp4/README.md)
- [Lemur Pro (lemp9)](lemp9/README.md)
- [Oryx Pro (oryp6)](oryp6/README.md)

Commit message:

Add Launch tech-docs (WIP)

src/models/README.md, after:

# Models

System76 provides laptops, desktops, and servers with Linux pre-installed, as well as open source keyboards running QMK firmware.
This documentation includes the following System76 models:

## Current Models

- [Adder WS (addw2)](addw2/README.md)
- [Bonobo WS (bonw14)](bonw14/README.md)
- [Darter Pro (darp7)](darp7/README.md)
- [Galago Pro (galp5)](galp5/README.md)
- [Gazelle (gaze15)](gaze15/README.md)
- [Launch Customizable Keyboard (launch_1)](launch_1/README.md)
- [Lemur Pro (lemp10)](lemp10/README.md)
- [Meerkat (meer5)](meer5/README.md)
- [Oryx Pro (oryp7)](oryp7/README.md)
- [Pangolin (pang10)](pang10/README.md)
- [Serval WS (serw12)](serw12/README.md)
- [Thelio Major B2 (thelio-major-b2)](thelio-major-b2/service-manual.md)
- [Thelio Massive (thelio-massive-b1.2)](thelio-massive-b1.2/README.md)
- [Thelio Mega (thelio-mega-r1.0)](thelio-mega-r1.0/README.md)
- [Thelio Mira (thelio-mira-r1.0)](thelio-mira-r1.0/README.md)

## Previous Models

- [Adder WS (addw1)](addw1/README.md)
- [Darter Pro (darp6)](darp6/README.md)
- [Galago Pro (galp4)](galp4/README.md)
- [Lemur Pro (lemp9)](lemp9/README.md)
- [Oryx Pro (oryp6)](oryp6/README.md)
