src/models/gaze15/repairs.md, before:

# Gazelle (Parts & Repairs)

Many components in your Lemur Pro can be upgraded or replaced as necessary. Follow these step-by-step guides for instructions:

- [Replacing the keyboard](#replacing-the-keyboard)
- Removing the bottom cover
- Replacing the RAM
- Replacing an M.2/NVMe SSD
- Replacing the fans/heatsink/thermal paste
- Replacing the CMOS battery
- Replacing the external battery
- Replacing the WiFi/Bluetooth module

## Replacing the keyboard:

Keyboard replacement is simple and requires only a cross-head screwdriver.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 5 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  
**Screws:** 2 total - 2 x M2 (black)

### Steps to replace the keyboard:

1. Place the Gazelle lid-side down.
2. Remove the 2 keyboard screws, indicated by the small keyboard icons (highlighted yellow below).

![Keyboard screws](./img/keyboard-screws.jpg)

3. Open the Gazelle and place it on its side.
4. Push the screwdriver into the keyboard push point (highlighted cyan above) until the keyboard pops out.

![Keyboard push point](./img/keyboard-push-point.jpg)

5. Set the Gazelle down, then pull the keyboard loose, starting from the top side.

![Keyboard removal](./img/keyboard-removal.jpg)

6. Flip the keyboard over onto the trackpad.

![Keyboard ribbons](./img/keyboard-ribbons.jpg)

7. Pull the large ribbon cable out of the connector.
8. The small ribbon cables have latches. Gently pull the latches from both sides and remove the ribbon cables.
9. Remove the keyboard and replace it with the new one.
10. Insert the large ribbon cable into the connector.
11. Seat the small ribbon cables, then apply pressure equally to both sides of the connector to secure.
12. Flip the keyboard over and press the bottom tabs of the keyboard into the case.
13. Secure the keyboard by pressing down on the edges of the keyboard.
14. Flip the Gazelle over.
15. Replace the 2 screws holding the keyboard in place.
16. Boot your Gazelle and confirm the keyboard is operational.

## Removing the bottom cover:

Removing the cover is required to access the internal components. Prior to removing the cover, ensure the AC power is unplugged and all peripherals (including SD cards and USB drives) are unplugged or removed from the system.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 5 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  
**Screws:** 17 total - 12 x M2 perimeter (black); 2 x M2 keyboard (black); 3 x M2 battery (black)

### Steps to remove the bottom cover:

1. Place the Gazelle lid-side down.

Commit message:

Add bottom panel removal & RAM replacement

src/models/gaze15/repairs.md, after:

# Gazelle (Parts & Repairs)

Many components in your Lemur Pro can be upgraded or replaced as necessary. Follow these step-by-step guides for instructions:

- [Replacing the keyboard](#replacing-the-keyboard)
- [Removing the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover)
- [Replacing the RAM](#replacing-the-ram)
- Replacing an M.2/NVMe SSD
- Replacing the fans/heatsink/thermal paste
- Replacing the CMOS battery
- Replacing the external battery
- Replacing the WiFi/Bluetooth module

## Replacing the keyboard:

Keyboard replacement is simple and requires only a cross-head screwdriver.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 5 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  
**Screws:** 2 total - 2 x M2 (black)

### Steps to replace the keyboard:

1. Place the Gazelle lid-side down.
2. Remove the 2 keyboard screws, indicated by the small keyboard icons (highlighted yellow below).

![Keyboard screws](./img/keyboard-screws.jpg)

3. Open the Gazelle and place it on its side.
4. Push the screwdriver into the keyboard push point (highlighted cyan above) until the keyboard pops out.

![Keyboard push point](./img/keyboard-push-point.jpg)

5. Set the Gazelle down, then pull the keyboard loose, starting from the top side.

![Keyboard removal](./img/keyboard-removal.jpg)

6. Flip the keyboard over onto the trackpad.

![Keyboard ribbons](./img/keyboard-ribbons.jpg)

7. Pull the large ribbon cable out of the connector.
8. The small ribbon cables have latches. Gently pull the latches from both sides and remove the ribbon cables.
9. Remove the keyboard and replace it with the new one.
10. Insert the large ribbon cable into the connector.
11. Seat the small ribbon cables, then apply pressure equally to both sides of the connector to secure.
12. Flip the keyboard over and press the bottom tabs of the keyboard into the case.
13. Secure the keyboard by pressing down on the edges of the keyboard.
14. Flip the Gazelle over.
15. Replace the 2 screws holding the keyboard in place.
16. Boot your Gazelle and confirm the keyboard is operational.

## Removing the bottom cover:

Removing the cover is required to access the internal components. Prior to removing the cover, ensure the AC power is unplugged and all peripherals (including SD cards and USB drives) are unplugged or removed from the system.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 5 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Easy <span style="color:green;">●</span>  
**Screws:** 17 total - 12 x M2 perimeter (black); 2 x M2 keyboard (black); 3 x M2 under-battery (black)

### Steps to remove the bottom cover:

1. Place the Gazelle lid-side down.
2. Remove the external battery.
3. Remove the 13 perimiter screws, 2 keyboard screws, and 3 under-battery screws.

![Bottom panel screws](./img/bottom-panel-screws.jpg)

4. Lift the bottom cover off, starting from the front corners working to the back near the hinges.

## Replacing the RAM:

RAM acts as temporary storage for your computer. More RAM generally provides better performance. If you're purchased new RAM, need to replace your RAM, or are reseating your RAM, follow these steps.

**Tools required:** Cross-head (Phillips) screwdriver  
**Time estimate:** 10 minutes  
**Difficulty:** Medium <span style="color:orange;">●</span>  

### Steps to remove the bottom cover:

1. Follow the steps above to [remove the bottom cover](#removing-the-bottom-cover).
2. Press the small tabs on both sides of the RAM simultaneously. The RAM should spring up to an angle.

![RAM removal](./img/ram-removal.jpg)

3. Remove the RAM from the slot.
4. Insert the new RAM (or reseat the existing RAM) by placing it in the keyed slot and pressing down on the RAM until it clicks into place.
