src/models/meer5/README.md, before:

# Meerkat (meer5)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Short Meerkat](./img/meer5-short.png)

The System76 Meerkat is a desktop with the following specifications:

- CPU options
    - [i3-10110U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/196451/intel-core-i3-10110u-processor-4m-cache-up-to-4-10-ghz.html)
    - [i5-10210U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/195436/intel-core-i5-10210u-processor-6m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz.html)
    - [i7-10710U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/196448/intel-core-i7-10710u-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz.html)
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) Dual Channel  DDR4 SODIMMs @ 2666 MHz
- Networking
    - Intel® Ethernet Connection I219-V
    - Intel® Wi-Fi 6 AX201 with integrated bluetooth
- Power
    - 90W (10V, 4.74A) power supply
        - Included AC adapter uses C5 (Cloverleaf) power cord
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
- Sound
    - 3.5mm line out/line in combo jack for headsets
    - 7.1 digital out over HDMI and mDP
    - Integrated front microphone
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe or SATA)
    - 1x 2.5" SATA (for Tall meer5 only)
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-C
    - 1x USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
    - 3x USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - Short: 117 x 112 x 38mm
    - Tall:  117 x 112 x 51mm

Commit message:

Fix meer5 power adapter info

src/models/meer5/README.md, after:

# Meerkat (meer5)

- [External Overview](./external-overview.md)
- [Internal Overview](./internal-overview.md)
- [Parts & Repairs](./repairs.md)

![Short Meerkat](./img/meer5-short.png)

The System76 Meerkat is a desktop with the following specifications:

- CPU options
    - [i3-10110U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/196451/intel-core-i3-10110u-processor-4m-cache-up-to-4-10-ghz.html)
    - [i5-10210U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/195436/intel-core-i5-10210u-processor-6m-cache-up-to-4-20-ghz.html)
    - [i7-10710U](https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/196448/intel-core-i7-10710u-processor-12m-cache-up-to-4-70-ghz.html)
- Memory
    - Up to 64GB (2x32GB) Dual Channel  DDR4 SODIMMs @ 2666 MHz
- Networking
    - Intel® Ethernet Connection I219-V
    - Intel® Wi-Fi 6 AX201 with integrated bluetooth
- Power
    - i3 and i5 models: 90W (19V, 4.74A) power supply
        - APD brand, model number: DA-90J19 (model of included AC adapter may vary, but the specs will not)
        - Included AC adapter uses C5 (Cloverleaf) power cord
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
    - i7 model: 120W (19V, 6.32A) power supply
        - FSP brand, model number: FSP120-ABBN3 (model of included AC adapter may vary, but the specs will not)
        - Included AC adapter uses C5 (Cloverleaf) power cord
        - Barrel size: 5.5mm (outer), 2.5mm (inner)
- Sound
    - 3.5mm line out/line in combo jack for headsets
    - 7.1 digital out over HDMI and mDP
    - Integrated front microphone
- Storage
    - 1x M.2 (PCIe NVMe or SATA)
    - 1x 2.5" SATA (for Tall meer5 only)
    - SD card reader
- USB
    - 1x USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-C
    - 1x USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-C with Thunderbolt 3
    - 3x USB 3.1 Gen 2 Type-A
- Dimensions
    - Short: 117 x 112 x 38mm
    - Tall:  117 x 112 x 51mm
